# Cross-selling-prediction
Developing a strategic analytical solution for the insurance company to help them initiate cross-selling of auto insurance to their existing health insurance customers. 
Data source: Kaggle Datasets Health Insurance Cross-Sell Prediction (https://www.kaggle.com/anmolkumar/health-insurance-cross-sell-prediction).
Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) was conducted using SweetViz in Python. Data exploration confirmed the following- No missing values, six categorical variables and six numerical variables, and no duplicate observations within the 381,109 observations dataset.  
Data Preparation before modeling: Feature engineering involved dummy variable, binning, and feature interactions to create new features. 
Data Preprocessing- Splitting of the dataset into 70% training and 30% testing set to enable proper training and testing validation
                    Data Imbalance treatment by upsampling the training set to derive enhanced predictive power. 
Model training: Nine different models including Light GBM, Decision tree, Naive Bayes, KNN, Ada boosting, random forest, logistic regression were trained, and test set predictions were obtained to enable selection
Model selection: LightGBM with Optuna – boosting type as gbdt (gradient boosted decision tree) was selected to be the best model based on the accuracy and profitability metrics. Model profitability is computed on the test set confusion matrix. Estimated revenue on a True Positive prediction, Opportunity cost on a False Negative prediction, and acquisition cost applied to all positive predictions generated by the model (True and False Positives). These estimations were fed into the income formula to develop a function to estimate the probability threshold at which it is maximized for model selection. LightGBM with gbdt model has been deployed to maximize the net profit of the insurance company. This model will help in planning a marketing strategy to reach out to their target customers. The insurance firm will prepare the communication strategy only for the predicted list of customers to maximize their profitability from this cross-selling. This would successfully increase the conversion rates of their existing policyholders.  
